**
                               ROUNDERS

The following rules, selected from NRA rules, are those most frequently
misunderstood. The re-wording, it is hoped, helps to clarify them.


SCORING

One rounder is scored when:

a) the batsman hits the ball forward and runs outside all four posts
   before another ball is bowled.

b) after hitting the ball behind the front line of the batting square (and
   its projections) the batsman waits at first base until the ball has
   been thrown back into the playing area and then runs round to fourth
   post.

c) having taken a no-ball, the batsman runs to fourth post (even if the
   ball is caught).

Half a rounder is scored when:

a) having failed to hit the ball, the batsman reaches fourth post.

b) the bowler gives three consecutive no-balls, even though the batsman
   takes the third no-ball; this is a penalty half rounder.

c) the fielding team obstructs the batting team. (A penalty half rounder
   is awarded to the batting team.)

d) the batting team obstructs the fielding team. (A penalty half rounder
   is awarded to the fielding team.)

It is possible to score, for example:

      One rounder from a no-ball 'taken'
PLUS  half a rounder for the third no-ball (penalty half rounder).


NO-BALLS

A no-ball is one that is not:

a) bowled with a continuous smooth action.

b) bowled from within the bowling square i.e. all or part of the bowler's
   foot is over the line.

c) between the top of the batsman's head and his knee.

d) on the batsman's hitting side.

e) bowled through the air.

The batsman, being bowled a no-ball may:

a) wait for a good ball.

b) take it; he may return before he reaches first post, but has 'taken' the
   ball when he reaches first.

c) not be run out at first post.

d) not be caught out.

e) be put out in the normal way after leaving first post.


RUNNING ROUND THE TRACK

Two batsmen may not stand at the same post. The umpire shall order the
batsman who batted first to run on and he may be put out in the usual way.
A batsman who overtakes another shall be given out.


PREVENTING SCORING

A batsman is out when:

a) he steps over the front line of the batting square in hitting the ball.

b) he is caught from a good ball.

c) a fielder's hand holding the ball touches a post before the batsman 
   makes contact with the post.

d) a fielder's hand holding the ball touches the batsman while he is
   either in the batting square or running around the track.

e) he overtakes another batsman.

f) he loses contact with his post.

g) he obstructs a fielder.

h) a fielder bounces the ball in the batting square when there are no more
   batsmen waiting to bat.

i) he runs on the inside of a post.

Scoring can be prevented without the batsman being out by:

a) throwing the ball to the bowler standing in his square. Batsmen may not
   leave the post, nor pass the one immediately ahead if they are
   running between posts.

b) throwing ball to the fielder at the post (or base) immediately ahead
   of the standing or running batsman.


Figure 1
--------

                                                  4th Base


                                                  3rd Base
              1st Base

                                         Batsman

                              2nd Base

To prevent scoring the ball must be thrown to 3rd base.


Figure 2
--------

                                                  4th Base


                                                  3rd Base
              1st Base

                     Batsman 'A'         Batsman 'B'

                              2nd Base

Throwing the ball to 3rd base could dismiss Batsman 'B'. To prevent
Batsman 'A' scoring, 3rd Base would need to touch the post again when
Batsman 'A' has reached 2nd Base.

Batsmen cannot be stopped from running on except when:

a) the ball is behind the front of the batting square; the batsman who
   has hit it (but no-one else) must wait at first base.

b) the bowler has the ball and is in his square.

Pausing at a post is allowed and a rounder or half rounder may be scored.



