*puid #H puid
*component ..
PUID
    A Permanent Unique IDentifier is assigned to any object that needs a
name on the Ring.  A PUID has the same format as a TUID (see below) but
it does not represent a particular active instance of an object.  It is
a public name, and can often be looked up in the MAP service.

*component ..
*tuid
TUID
    A TUID ("Temporary Unique Identifer") is a 64-bit number the lowest
48 bits of which are random, the highest 8 bits of which denote the
Active Object Table which knows it and the remaining 8 bits denoting
the service which produced the random number (the PUID generating service).
    A TUID exists for the duration of a UID set's existance and is
unguessable to all but those to whom it has been passed.  That it matches
the rest of a UID set (the PUID and Authentity in particular) can be
verified at its Active Object Table Service.  It acts as a kind of
"capability" for the object named by the Authentity and PUID.
*component ..

*component ..
*authentity
*auty
AUTHENTITY
    The Authentity or "Authority Identity" of a UID SET is a PUID (use
HELP PUID for more information) which identifies the creator of that
UID set.  Only holders of a valid UID set for an authentity are allowed
to create new UID sets in the Active Object Table.  An "authentity UID
set" is a valid UID set in which the authentity is a special PUID
conventionally denoted 'auth'.  Such UID sets can be obtained from the
SOAP service upon proof of identity.
*component ..

*component
*tpuid
TPUID
    A TPUID is a Unique IDentifier from a UID set with the same format
as a TUID (use HELP TUID for this information).  It controls the existance
of the UID set that it is uniquely associated with in the Active Object
Table.  Using it UID sets can be 'refreshed'.  That is, they can have
their timeouts altered to any new value (less than 2**24 seconds).  UID
sets can be deleted by setting their timeout to zero seconds.  If no TPUID
is possessed the UID set that it represents will be deleted after its
current timout period.
**
A UIDSET is a collection of UIDs (64 bit numbers with a random part) which
is used by the ring authentication system to identify and authenticate
objects.  Try HELP AUTHENTICATION for information on this.  The UIDSET
can have four component UIDs:  PUID, TUID, Authentity and TPUID.  
See HELP UIDSET COMPONENTS for more information.  See HELP UIDEDIT on
the program to manipulate the UIDSETs stored on a Tripos machine.


