**
WS Recovery
From:           JPB:68000-OBJ.WS-RECOVER "machine/a,task/a,file1/a,file2"
Purpose:        Recovery of editor text from crashed machines
Author:         JPB
Specification:

The days of lost text following a filing machine crash during editing
with WS are now over. This program will attempt to recover the text being
edited from a dead machine. In the event of a machine crashing during
editing, take the following steps:

   1. If your machine is in imminent danger of timing out prevent it from
      doing so by going to the session manager and loading the RESET
      system, viz.

         sysdesc RESET 30 30 -m <mcname>

   2. Grab a new 68000.

   3. Run the WS-recover command to retrieve your text.

The meanings of the arguments are as follows:

MACHINE - The name of the crashed machine.

TASK    - The task which was running Worcester at the time of the crash.

FILE1   - The file in which the text of the current window will be
          dumped. If you had only one window this is all you need. Note
          that if you were editing a very large file parts of it may well
          be in the end of the original file, or in temporary files of
          the form:

             WS-<number>-<number>

          You will need to join the relevant bits together by hand.

FILE2   - If you were editing with a second window and specify this
          argument then ws-recover will attempt to put the inactive
          window contents into this file. The same provisos with respect
          to very large files apply.

I believe this command to be relatively harmless, but it may have unknown
bugs. In particular it may lose a character or two at the start, end, or
cursor position in the file. Until I can check up with WRS on the
internal workings of WS I cannot guarantee to get this right. Files with
characters with the parity set, or delete characters (i.e. ASCII 127 -
255) will find these characters stripped out. If you get the TASK
argument wrong you may end up with junk in FILE1 and FILE2, or a rude
message, but I hope nothing worse. The same may happen if you specify the
wrong machine (although it won't affect the machine).


